---
layout: article
title: java Function源码注释
date: 2020-05-25 20:26:58 +0800
categories: java
tags: jdk 源码
---
本文简单的注释了一下jdk的Function源码。


{% highlight java linenos %}
package java.util.function;

import java.util.Objects;

/**
 * Represents a function that accepts one argument and produces a result.
 *
 * <p>This is a <a href="package-summary.html">functional interface</a>
 * whose functional method is {@link #apply(Object)}.
 *
 * @param <T> the type of the input to the function     函数的入参类型
 * @param <R> the type of the result of the function    函数的返回值类型
 *
 * @since 1.8
 */
@FunctionalInterface
public interface Function<T, R> {

    /**
     * Applies this function to the given argument.
     *
     * @param t the function argument
     * @return the function result
     */
    R apply(T t);

    /**
     * Returns a composed function that first applies the {@code before}           返回一个新的函数，新函数首先用自身的入参调用before，
     * function to its input, and then applies this function to the result.        然后将返回值作为入参调用当前的函数，最终将返回值作为新函数的返回值。
     * If evaluation of either function throws an exception, it is relayed to
     * the caller of the composed function.
     *
     * @param <V> the type of input to the {@code before} function, and to the
     *           composed function
     * @param before the function to apply before this function is applied
     * @return a composed function that first applies the {@code before}
     * function and then applies this function
     * @throws NullPointerException if before is null
     *
     * @see #andThen(Function)
     */
    default <V> Function<V, R> compose(Function<? super V, ? extends T> before) {
        Objects.requireNonNull(before);
        return (V v) -> apply(before.apply(v));
    }

    /**
     * Returns a composed function that first applies this function to              返回一个新的函数，新函数首先用自身的入参调用当前函数，
     * its input, and then applies the {@code after} function to the result.        然后将返回值作为入参调用before的函数，最终将返回值作为新函数的返回值。
     * If evaluation of either function throws an exception, it is relayed to
     * the caller of the composed function.
     *
     * @param <V> the type of output of the {@code after} function, and of the
     *           composed function
     * @param after the function to apply after this function is applied
     * @return a composed function that first applies this function and then
     * applies the {@code after} function
     * @throws NullPointerException if after is null
     *
     * @see #compose(Function)
     */
    default <V> Function<T, V> andThen(Function<? super R, ? extends V> after) {
        Objects.requireNonNull(after);
        return (T t) -> after.apply(apply(t));
    }

    /**
     * Returns a function that always returns its input argument.
     *
     * @param <T> the type of the input and output objects to the function
     * @return a function that always returns its input argument
     */
    static <T> Function<T, T> identity() {
        return t -> t;
    }
}

{% endhighlight %}
